This file contains the plan for my Breakout Game.

Opinions on other versions of breakout:

Circus - I thought the circus game was very successful in its use of physics.  I liked that the characters jumped in
arcs and that it mattered where the character landed on the see-saw.  Specifically, I thought it was a nice touch to
make it so if the character didn't land at a rather ideal part of the see-saw the character wouldn't jump high enough to
 eliminate any blocks.

Vortex - Vortex had the most interesting graphics of any of the games to me.  I thought the circular nature and the
sense of depth that was created on the screen was very visually appealing but would be too difficult for me to implement
.  However, I did not like that the ball would just break through the bricks and continue along their path instead of
bouncing off the bricks that it hit.  I was also unsure how the laser was used.  I like that the laser in theory could
allow the user to eliminate bricks with more control but I am unsure how it actually functioned in the vortex game.  I
also liked that the levels had a time limit.  I think this could be an easy way to increase or decrease the difficulty
of any given level.

Centipong - Centipong's rules were not immediately clear to me just from watching the game.  I was unsure as to what the
 objective of the game was which I think is a bad sign.  However, I thought the physics behind how the balls bounce off
 the paddle was well implemented.  I liked how the ball bounce depended on the paddle's speed and direction.
 Furthermore, the power-ups in Centipong were interesting.  I liked when there were a bunch of balls on the screen at
 the same time and I plan to implement a similar feature in my game.

Pinball Breakout - I thought it was an interesting idea to have different kinds of paddles and pinball flappers in the
same game.  I think the controls would be difficult for the player but the idea is pretty ambitious and cool.  On the
other hand, the way that the flappers were positioned made it unlikely that they could ever really be used which was
unfortunate.  I like the idea of possibly having multiple paddles on the screen at one time as a power up.


General Descriptions of the Different Levels:
I want to implement beginning, intermediate and advanced versions of each of my levels.  The difficulty will be
determined by the amount of time given to complete the level, the frequency of getting power ups, and the starting ball
speed (the ball speed in some ways is a trade-off because the player will get to destroy blocks faster but it will be
easier to lose).

I will create three levels, each with a beginning, intermdiate, and advanced mode.  In the first level the blocks will
be laid out in the shape of a '1', on the second level the blocks will be laid out in the shape of the word 'TWO' and in
 the third level the blocks will be laid out in the shape of the word 'THREE'.  Hence, each level will include more
 blocks and more blocks closer to the bottom of the screen making them more difficult.
 


Different Types of Blocks:
The generic block will be destroyed with one hit (destroying this block will give the player 10 points0
There will be another block that takes 2 hits to destroy - it will turn into the generic block after the first hit
(first hit will be worth 10 points and second worth 10 points for 20 points total)
There will be a third block that takes 3 hits to destroy - it will turn into a 2-hit block after the first hit
(first hit will be worth 10 points and second worth 10 points and third worth 10 points for 30 points total)

Any of these three blocks listed above can drop power-ups.

There will also be blocks that cannot be destroyed and do not give any points - these are not taken into account when
determining if the user has defeated the level

There will be some red blocks that cause the player to lose a life if they are hit - these are not taken into account
when determining if the user has defeated the level



Different Types of Power-ups:
One power up will be the ability to select a block and destroy it.  This power up could be very valuable for helping
players destroy hard to reach blocks or blocks that take several hits to destroy.

Another power up will be dropping balls from the top of the screen to essentially put one hit on each of the top layer
of bricks.

Another power up I plan to implement is a power up the makes the paddle longer for a period of time.  This will make it
easier to stay alive.

Another power up will add more time to the clock.  This power up will be particularly valuable in the advanced modes of
the game in which the time may be a real issue.

I will also add an extra life power up that gives the player another life.

I will also add a power up that produces another paddle to help the player




Cheat Keys:
'L' - add another life
'R' - reset the level
'T' - give infinite time
'D' - Destroy any block by clicking on it
# keys - Jump to level of that number
'P' - gain access to all power ups (except extra life and extra time since handled by other cheat keys)

I am still thinking through the cheat keys because I do not really know what could be a valuable cheat key




Something Extra:
My something extra is going to be a tutorial mode that uses a very easy block configuration to show the user how to play
 and to introduce the user to all the different power ups.  The tutorial will also point out the features of the game
 such as pointing to were the number of lives remaining is, how to pause the game and change the difficulty, etc.




